The Joe Rogan experience. You know, I wrote a, um,
a piece a long time ago on my blog. And, um, um,
I talked about it in one of my comedy specials that, uh,
I had a crazy experience with dolphins once, um,
when I was really, really high and I had this, um, I mean, it's,
it sounds silly to even talk about,
but I almost feel like I kind of understood that they're like us,
but they just don't alter their environment. What I realized,
like when they were playing with us,
when they were jumping by the boat and they were looking at you,
they're looking at you while they were jumping around with the boat.
And I was like, they're playing. And they're looking at you.
Like a person would like a water.
We're interacting. There's almost a language at this point.
There's some level of bridged gap in the communication.
When you get to see that they're expressing themselves in interest in you and
whatnot and,
and scoping them when you get really close and establish a relationship with
these animals, that's when things start getting real squirrely,
because you start to find that happy medium language.
And now all of a sudden you are starting to sort of speak so to say, yeah.
Um, well, I started getting really weird, um,
feelings about SeaWorld and,
and animal captivity like this.
W w w why do we need that in this day and age like this, isn't the dark ages.
We shouldn't be putting whales and orcas and dolphins putting them
in these tanks, these water, fish, swimming pools, they're swimming pools.
And you have these things that are probably as smart as us in some different
way.
Like we're so prejudiced in that we only think of intelligence as something that
can manipulate its environment. That's our problem. Like we're like,
look at them, they're world. They don't have any houses.
They can't write a letter. They they're stupid, man, stop it they're stupid.
But the dolphins apparently have a cerebral cortex at some something around
40% larger than a human beings. They have super complex language.
Their emotional intelligence is the mystery,
and it appears that it's far beyond anything we ourselves can understand.
Uh, same as orcas. They've got that. Uh,
they've got another part of the brain in the front,
which is its function in the front of the cerebral cortex. That function is to,
um, as for communication and for, and for it.
And it enhances their emotional capacity to a point where we don't really know
the depth of which they are, uh, the power of their emotion, but we know that,
uh, they stay with their families for their lifetimes. The males born, uh, from,
from the mothers will, will rarely leave the mother's side,
quite literally the distance of an Orca itself.
The only time that male will go on is when it's matured and it will go to a
total procreate and then back to the mother and it will live its entire life as
such. And the sad fact about that is in my experience,
working with male orcas caught from one of which cut from the wild,
a big bull Orca is he was a mama's boy. You can see something was missing.
He was traumatized from something. And of course,
even myself as a regarded whale expert in the capacity of working at a fricking
place like Marine land,
even I would have never known this information when I started this,
this is not information that was available to us back in. I started in 2000.
It makes sense. Now, this animal's traumatized from birth,
his will to live is just gone it's at,
and the male. It appears to me. And in my experience,
the male sex of, uh, well,
I've worked with seals, I've worked with sea lions. I've worked with, uh,
walruses, uh, uh, dolphins Balugas and orcas,
all of them die younger. The males die younger.
And I think, well, definitely in the orcas and the,
and the dolphins cases is they just don't have that will to live without that
strong maternal figure in their life.
Well, I try to explain to people that don't see it, and they think that the,
the dolphins get treated well or the orcas get treated well. This is what,
imagine if someone stole your son and put him in
an air box at the bottom of the ocean and dolphins and
whales and fish just came by and stared at them imagine,
and he lives his life like that with no contact, other than with his,
his dolphin handlers or whoever's taking care of him.
And he just lives in this box, missing his family, missing his loved ones,
missing his life, confused, lost, and with,
with a language that is, especially with orcas and dolphins,
they have a language it's so complex.
We haven't been able to really decipher it. We don't understand how it works.
You know, John Lilly spent, they spent, I think,
decades working on trying to get dolphins to speak human noises.
He had a bunch of studies that he did. And, um,
he even had a D it's a crazy story.
I'm sure you've heard of the woman who lived with the dolphin. She,
she tried to establish a relationship with the dolphin where she,
they made an apartment that was half under water,
but the dolphin always wanted to. So she just jerked the dolphin off.
And when she jerked the dolphin off,
that was the only thing that calmed him down. And then she could do her work.
So for her, it was just like a technicality. I just got a jerk, this dolphin,
all it's in the animal. It wants to be rubbed.
All the moral stuff that's attached to that is all in my own head. She's like,
I'm just going to be a scientist. And they were like, cut. Get that.
I think they were also injecting ketamine into the dolphins or something as
well.
I do not know if they were doing that into dolphins,
but I do know that they did some experiments with LSD and that, uh,
John Lilly, who was one of my personal heroes,
he's the creator of the flotation tank. This is all John Lilly stuff.
He was a pioneer in interspecies communication.
He would take acid and think that he was communicating with dolphins. Did you.
Know you're on the cover of one of his books.
Was yes. We talking about.
Face is, I mean, it's, it's a spitting image on,
in one of his books.
Lily's books. Do this.
Look this up. Maybe the spirits.
Travel or.
Dude. It's not you, man. I'm sorry. I was that.
Oh man. That's weird. Yeah. Wow. Uh,
so that's a pro I can't read that. What does it say? Something the human,
human bio-computer biochem. Yeah. I didn't read that one.
I read the deep self though. The deep self is really interesting. Um,
and the deep self, I think the deep self is the one that also has, um,
diagrams on how to build a tank. He was trying to get people to build tanks.
He was like, listen, man, I found some out. You gotta try this.
The last time while I was here. Uh, not the last time two times ago,
you actually, uh, sent me to crash.
Crash, crash.
The float lab. Yeah. And he, uh, you know,
I thought I'd be in there for an hour. It turns out I was in there for a couple.
And when I came out, I'm like, dude, I was waiting for the knock.
He's just like, oh no, man. It's just letting you stay in. And I'm like, oh.
I'm looking at the time of.
Crashes. The lack of legit hippie. Oh yeah. Oh yeah. He's great. He's great.
He's he's the mad scientist behind float lab. Yeah.
That's why those things are so well engineered. When I met him,
I was like what I was like. Cause I tanks before that, when I, I,
I first got a tank in like 2002,
somewhere around in 2002, 2003. And, um,
it was, uh, it was great, but it was like, it would break things would go wrong.
It flooded my basement. It was like, there was disasters. It wasn't. And then,
um, my friend who was a, a tank technician, there's actually tank technicians.
He said, listen, you gotta get checked out this guy in Venice.
So some mad scientist down there in Venice,
it's just making these super over-engineered float tanks. And he goes,
they look like walking meat lockers. Right. I was like, what?
And then she showed.
Me, you had like a pod installed. Had.
Um, it was a very good tank. It's just, uh, it just,
it wasn't as well constructed. It also wasn't nearly as expensive. It just,
he went the distance, he went the distance and he still keeps,
keeps coming over here. I've got to change things. We've got to,
we're upgrading, we're doing things. He's.
Always cramming, trying to enhance the experience for everyone. I mean.
He's always trying to make it better. He's the front of the line.
And when I first started working with him,
like when I first started having him on the podcast and I hired him to build me
a tank and I'll let you, I was like, there was no tanks. It was,
it was real rare that you'd find tank centers. Now they're everywhere, man.
They're everywhere.
Well, I'll say this,
the experience I had in his tank versus the one that I there's a local place,
uh, from where, uh, where I'm from, uh,
was hands down a different experience because he really isolates you there.
Whereas this was like a pod that they bought and installed in a room. I mean,
it was great, please.
Is super insulated. So there's no noise.
Getting in that thing.
And he gave me the tour of the whole backstage to where I was all back to check
that out. It's like 12 minutes. It's got a serious complex there.
It's hard to appreciate. But when he first started making tanks like that,
which like, again, I think I bought one of his tanks in 2005,
I think somewhere around then, dude. Well,
there was no one making anything like that. He was,
he's making these super high-end crazy double wall insulated
tanks and you get in there. It's just, yeah, Justin nothing.
And you just will swallow. You just get taken into the,
this it's a good place to think about the subject.